Haji Ali Dargah is a celebrated Islamic shrine, which earns immense recognition across the globe. This white edifice is nestled on a small islet that lies away from the city's shoreline, almost in the middle of the Arabian Sea. The reason behind the popularity and prominence of this religious complex is that it houses the tombstone of Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari (R.A.) – a revered Muslim saint. In addition to the sacred tomb, a mosque also forms a part of the holy compound. This shrine witnesses a huge footfall of devotees who come here and offer homage to the saint, irrespective of their religion, caste, creed and social status.

Only a few things are known about the life of Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari, except the fact that he belonged to some place in ancient Persia and came to India for spreading teachings of Islam. Owing to the miracles that he performed, he was regarded as a saint and was widely followed and worshipped. Before death, he expressed his wish that he wanted his shroud to be immersed in water rather than being buried underground. His followers obeyed the wish and constructed a tomb at the spot where his shroud rested after floating in the sea. 

The Haji Ali Dargah complex sprawls over an area of 5000 sq m and consists of three main structures – a dargah, mosque and sanatorium. Mughal style of architecture has been used in the construction of this shrine, which has imposing white minarets and a large marble-covered entrance. The tomb is a white marble structure with arched frames, exquisite mirror work and a silver crown. A sacred cloth with Quran's verses covers the sacred relics of the saint. The dome above the tomb has mirror work detailing that forms a mosaic of beautiful patterns. There are three halls in the main dargah, of which one is reserved for women. This religious compound has a huge foyer called Qawwal Khana, where qawwali performances take place in the honour of Haji Ali. 

In order to reach this shrine, visitors have to walk through the narrow pathway that connects it to the Lala Lajpat Rai Marg. Although this dargah is more than 500 years old, its present structure was built between 1960 and 1964. Every year, the managing trust organises several events in the sacred compound. The annual urs (death anniversary) of Haji Ali is the biggest event here. Another one is Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, which marks the birth of Prophet Muhammad.